#Lab 2
Michelle Soult

Partner: Olivia Abrant

###Question 1
#####(a) Rewrite grammar using judgement forms

```
____________		____________			
a ∈ VObjects		b ∈ VObjects			//axioms



s ∈ VObjects		
____________
s ∈ AObjects									// successors



s1 ∈ AObjects		s2 ∈ AObjects
_______________________________
s1 & s2 ∈ AObjects

```

#####(b) Show the parse tree

```
		A 									A 
	A   &   A							A   &   A
	v	  A & A                       A & A     v
   a  b    ...                         ...     a  b
	
This is ambiguous!  More than one parse tree can be created for the same syntax.  
```

#####(c) Describe the language

S ::= A | B | C

= aA | bB | cC

= aaA | bbB | ccC

=a...A | b...B | c...C

The A and C repetitions recurse n times, whereas the B repetitions recurse m times, as the B can terminate with &epsilon.
Therefore:

L(G) = {a^n or b^m or c^n | n > 0; m >= 0 }

#####(d) Demonstrate whether a sentence is described by the grammar by giving derivations.

#######1. baab

S ::= AaBb

-> baBb   (Rule 2)

-> baab   (Rule 3)

baab is described by the grammar.  


#######2. bbbab

S ::= AaBb

-> AbaBb   (Rule 2)

-> AbbaBb   (Rule 2)

-> bbbaBb   (Rule 2)

-> bbbaab (minimally) (Rule 3)

bbbab is *not* described by the grammar.


#######3. bbaaaaa

S ::= AaBb

The sequence must end in "b"

bbaaaaa is *not* described by the grammar.  


#######4. bbaab

S ::= AaBb

-> AbaBb   (Rule 2)
-> bbaBb   (Rule 2)
-> bbaab   (Rule 3)

bbaab is described by the grammar.  


#####(e) Demonstrate whether a sentence is described by the grammar by giving parse trees.

#######1. abcd
```
		S 
	a   S   c    B 
	    b        d 

= abcd
```
abcd is described by the grammar.


#######2. acccbd
```
		S 
	a   S   c   B
		A       d  
	   c  A 
		  c
= acccd 
```
acccdb is *not* described by the grammar.  


#######3. acccbcc 
```
		S 
	a   S   c   B
	  A OR b    A 
				c
			
= accccc or abcc
```
acccbcc is *not* described by the grammar.  


#######4. acd
```
		S 
	a   S   c   B
	    A       d
		c

= accd
```
acd is *not* described by the grammar.  


#######5. accc
```
		S
	a   S   c   B
	    A       A
		c       c
		
= accc
```
accc is described by the grammar.  

###Question 2
#####(a) Consider the following two grammars for expression e.
#######(i) Intuitively describe the expression generated by the two grammars

Grammar 1 would create expressions of the general form:

operand ... operator operand operator operand 

or just

operand


Grammar 2 would create expressions of the general form:

operand operator operand operator operand ...

or just

operand


#######(ii) Explain whether the grammars generate the same or different expressions

The grammars will generate the same types of expressions.  

Grammar 1 will generate "operator operand" n number of times from the right working left, finishing with an operand on the left.  

Grammar 2 will generate an initial operand on the left, followed on the right by n number of "operator operand".  

The result is that the expressions are created from different directions but will look the same.  


#####(b) Write a Scala expression to determine if - has a higher precedence than << or vice versa.  

```
2 - 3 << 2 = -4
2 - (3 << 2) = -10
2 << 4 - 3 = 4
2 << (4 - 3) = 4
```

Minus (-) has precedence over left shift (<<).  To have the left shift evaluate first, priority must be enforced using parenthesis.  

When priority is enforced on minus, however, behaviour does not change.  This indicates that minus has priority.  


#####(c) Give a BNF grammar for floating point numbers made up of a fraction followed by an optional exponent.

```
s ::= a.be
a ::= 0 | i | -i
e ::= Ei | Eib | ε
b ::= 0 | i | 0b | ib
i ::= 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```
Where 0-9, ., -, and E are in the set Σ
ε is the empty string

